---
title: "About {{ site.title }}: {{ site.subtitle }}"
layout: essay
comment:
---

The primary goals of {{ site.title }} are:

1. Provide a set of benchmark problems to compare and contrast codes for
   solving phase field equations.

2. Provide quality assurance for phase field codes based on
   performance and accuracy.

3. Increase the adoption of phase field methods in engineering and
   academic applications with the development of practical
   documentation.

4. Foster an engaged and integrated phase field community.

<h4> Details and Mentions </h4>

- Olle Heinonen wrote a philosophical introduction to the {{ site.title }}
  benchmarking effort, available as an [extended essay]({{ site.baseurl }}/benchmarks){:target="_blank"}.

- [Andrea Jokisaari, Peter Voorhees, Jon Guyer, and Olle Heinonen]({{
  site.url }}/community) published a peer-reviewed journal article in
  *Computational Materials Science* entitled ["Benchmark problems for numerical
  implementations of phase field models"](http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.commatsci.2016.09.022){:target="_blank"}.

  - CHiMaD News posted an overview of the article entitled
    ["Benchmark Problems for Phase Field Methods"](
    http://chimad.northwestern.edu/news-events/articles/2016/PhaseField_BenchMark.html).

- Aashutosh Mistry wrote an overview of the presentation delivered by
  Jonathan Guyer at MRS 2017 entitled ["Benchmarking Problems for Phase Field Codes"](
  http://materials.typepad.com/mrs_meeting_scene/2017/11/tc05-uncertainty-quantification-in-multiscale-materials-simulation-1.html).

<h4> Get Involved </h4>

We are an inclusive and expanding community and welcome new
participants.  All those interested in phase field modeling are
welcome to participate in a variety of different ways. See the
[involvement guide]({{ site.baseurl }}/INVOLVEMENT) for more details
about how you can get involved with the community.

<h4> Community </h4>

Please see the [community page]({{ site.baseurl }}/community) for
details of individuals involved in this project and their
affiliations.

<h4> Code of Conduct </h4>

We have a code of conduct and enforce it in our online interactions
and codebase. Please see the [code of conduct page]({{
site.baseurl}}/CODE_OF_CONDUCT) for further details.

<h4> Suggested Phase Field Codes </h4>

The goal of this site is to not only generate benchmarks, but to also
evaluate codes that solve phase field problems. We have a list of
[suggested codes]({{ site.baseurl}}/codes) that have been used to
solve some of the benchmark problems.

<h4> FAQ </h4>

<h5> Which code should I use to solve my phase field problem? </h5>

The right code for you depends on your familiarity with phase field
methods and relevant software, hardware available and complexity of
the phase field problem under consideration. We have a [list of phase
field codes]({{ site.baseurl}}/codes) and also a [list of benchmark
results]({{ site.baseurl}}/simulations/#simulations) that might help
you evaluate which code might work best for you. Our objective is that
the benchmarks will support users of the site in evaluating the
suitability of codes for particular classes of phase field problems,
but the user is the final arbiter in this process.

<h5> I don't like one of the benchmark problems. Can I help fix it? </h5>

Yes. Your feedback on the benchmark problems is highly valued. The
benchmarks are a moving target that you can contribute to. If you
would like to propose a change or improvement then please raise it via
[chat](https://gitter.im/usnistgov/chimad-phase-field) or as an
[issue](https://github.com/usnistgov/chimad-phase-field/issues/new). The
community will discuss the change and act on it if we can reach a
consensus
